To finish this section, lets put
something we learned in the last lecture into practice
right now, and that's to convert the HTML we've
been writing so far into the BEM system so
that we can start using BEM from now on.
So in this lecture, you're just gonna learn how to
use the BEM method in practice.
There's not actually a whole lot to do here already
because we haven't written so much HTML
up until this point.
One thing that we have to do though, is to
Identify our first block here.
That's the header here, so the header is obviously
a block in the BEM system because it is a
stand-alone component that is meaningful on
its own, and so is the block so all the elements
that are inside it should also have the header
attached to them right?
So this logo box here, it can only really exist
here in this header, so it's and element right?
Because it's a part of a block but it
has no standalone meaning.
So now we should start adding the header to the element.
So, header and now remember, it's double underscore
to separate the block from the element.
So header is the block and logo-box is the element.
And the same thing here for our logo,
so we call it header_logo.
Because this logo with this exact size,
and this exact image, it only just
exists here in the header.
The same goes, of course, for this text box.
So header_textbox, simply because this text box
is a part of the header and it doesn't make
much sense to use it anywhere else.
Now as for this heading-primer here,
things are a bit different actually, because we
could treat this as a block on its own.
Imagine that we wanted to use this H1 element
somewhere else, imagine we had another page but
without a header like this one, and we wanted
to use this primary heading, we could, of course,
do so and so this one here is a stand-alone block.
Now as to these two here, what do you think about them?
They are called heading-main and
heading-primary-sub.
So what these two are, is they are
actually modifiers of the heading-primary right?
Because they simply create a slightly different
version of this heading-primary class of the
block so what we do is we put two dashes here.
So remember, block and then if we have a modifier,
we do dash dash and then the name of the modifier.
If it's an element, then we use underscore
underscore and then the name of the element after that.
Same thing down here, a button is, of course, a
stand-alone component so we can consider it a
block in the BEM notation, because we're gonna
use this button throughout this entire page.
Now here, these two can be considered flags as well
such as we had before and so we use double dash
on both of them, cause this is still a button, a button
but they do simply create different versions,
different modifications, and that's why they're
called modifiers, and that's actually all
we have to do here in this markup.
So we now have this converted to the BEM notation,
so let's just go back to the style and
change it here as well.
So header, and let me just, actually,
copy this part, so header, and here we had
header_logo and header_text-box
and heading primary, so here just a dash missing
another dash, here everything stays the same
button, everything is good, so here another
dash to create this is different,
and here the btn-animated all right?
So that's actually it, so our code
is now converted to BEM.
Let's just check if everything's the same
here, which, of course, it should, and
well something happened, so something is
clearly wrong, so let's go back to check
if our CSS is completely correct,
so let me see if I forgot something here,
primary--sub and main okay so here the 't' is missing
so I guess that was the problem, it probably was.
Well there's another box somewhere, I guess.
Ah! Okay that's because I put the 't' in there
accidentally, alright but now it should work.
And here we go, so everything's back to the same,
our code is now converted to BEM,
and we're good to go.
That actually wraps up this theoretical section.
I believe that it was rather intense and sometimes
hard to grasp but as I said so many times already,
I know that it's really important to go through
these theoretical and fundamental aspects of the CSS
language, if you really want to grasp it and become
more professional in it.
So great job! Great Progress!
It's amazing that you're still with me and
you deserve some break or some rest if you need,
and if you don't then just continue to the next
lecture and I'll be waiting there for you.